packages/storybook/stories/QuickStarts/QuickstartComposite.stories.mdx, before:

import { Stack } from '@fluentui/react';
import { Meta, Source } from '@storybook/addon-docs';
import QuickstartCompositeAdapter from '!!raw-loader!./snippets/QuickstartCompositeAdapter.snippet.tsx';
import QuickstartCompositeComplete from '!!raw-loader!./snippets/QuickstartCompositeComplete.snippet.tsx';

<Meta
  id="quickstarts-composites"
  title="Composites/Get Started"
  parameters={{ previewTabs: { canvas: { disable: true, hidden: true } } }}
/>

# Quickstart: Get started with Composites

Get started with Azure Communication Services by using the UI Library to quickly integrate communication experiences into your applications. In this quickstart, you'll learn how to integrate UI Library composites into your application to build communication experiences.

UI Library components come in two flavors: UI and Composite.

- **UI components** represent discrete communication capabilities; they're the basic building blocks that can be used to build complex communication experiences.
- **Composite components** are turn-key experiences for common communication scenarios that have been built using **base components** as building blocks and packaged to be easily integrated into applications.

## Download the code

You can find the completed code for this quickstart here: [Get started with Composites](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/communication-services-javascript-quickstarts/tree/main/ui-library-quickstart-composites)

## Prerequisites

- An Azure account with an active subscription. [Create an account for free](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/?WT.mc_id=A261C142F).
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) Active LTS and Maintenance LTS versions (Node 14.19.0 and above).
- An active Communication Services resource. [Create a Communication Services resource](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/communication-services/quickstarts/create-communication-resource?tabs=windows&pivots=platform-azp).
- An identity with both VoIP and Chat scopes. Generate an identity using the [Azure Portal](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/communication-services/quickstarts/identity/quick-create-identity).

## Generate Access Token

For setting up adapters that power the composites, we need to generate an access token to allow the adapters to interact with the Azure Communication Services back-end.

Access Tokens can be generated using this [Azure Portal quickstart](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/communication-services/quickstarts/identity/quick-create-identity) inside your Azure Communication Services dashboard as shown below.

<Stack style={{ width: '100%' }}>
  {/* Chrome is more lenient with playing muted video: https://developer.chrome.com/blog/autoplay */}
  <video style={{ width: '100%' }} src="videos/generate-access-token.mp4" autoPlay loop muted />
</Stack>

<br />

## Setting Up

UI Library requires a React environment to be setup. Follow the [setup page](./?path=/docs/setup-communication-react--page) to get started
with your new app.

If you are on react 18 or higher and experiencing issues with starting your app,
visit our [setup page](./?path=/docs/setup-communication-react--page) to troubleshoot the issue.

### Install the Package

Use the `npm install` command to install the Azure Communication Services UI Library for JavaScript.

```bash

npm install @azure/communication-react

```

`@azure/communication-react` specifies core Azure Communication Services as `peerDependencies` so that
you can most consistently use the API from the core libraries in your application. You need to install those libraries as well:

```bash

npm install @azure/communication-calling@1.4.4
npm install @azure/communication-chat@1.2.0

```

Also install the `uuid` package to generate a random group ID for the 'Set Up Adapters' section below.

```bash

npm install uuid

```

### Run Create React App

Let's test the Create React App installation by running:

```bash

npm run start

```

## Object Model

The following classes and interfaces handle some of the major features of the Azure Communication Services UI client library:

| Name                                                                        | Description                                                                                  |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [CallComposite](./?path=/story/composites-call-basicexample--basic-example) | Composite component that renders a calling experience with participant gallery and controls. |
| [ChatComposite](./?path=/story/composites-chat-basicexample--basic-example) | Composite component that renders a chat experience with chat thread and input                |

## Set Up Adapters

Before we initialize the actual composite components, we need to set up the adapters that will power them.
These adapters take care of the entire state of the composites truly making them a turn-key solution.
To setup the adapters, developers needs to pass information on the call or chat they want to join.

The adapters require access tokens, group IDs, or thread IDs to be setup.
For this quickstart, the access tokens required need to have both `chat` and `VoIP` scopes.
For more information on access tokens see: [Identity Model](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/communication-services/concepts/identity-model#access-tokens)
These elements come from services that go through the proper steps to generate these IDs and pass them to the client application.
For more information, see: [Client Server Architecture](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/communication-services/concepts/client-and-server-architecture).
For Example: The Group Chat composite expects that the `userId` associated to the `token` being used to initialize it has already been joined to the `threadId` being provided.
If the token hasn't been joined to the thread ID, then the Group Chat composite will fail.
For more information on chat, see: [Getting Started with Chat](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/communication-services/quickstarts/chat/get-started?pivots=programming-language-csharp)

Go to the `src` folder inside of `ui-library-quickstart-composites` and look for the file `App.tsx`.

`App.tsx`

<Source code={QuickstartCompositeAdapter} />

Next we will initialize the composite components with the adapters.

## Initialize Composites

Go to the `src` folder inside of `ui-library-quickstart-composites` and look for the file `app.tsx`.
Here we'll drop the following code to initialize our Composite Components for Chat and Calling using the adapters we set up above.
You can choose which one to use depending on the type of communication experience you're building.
If needed, you can use both at the same time.

`App.tsx`

<Source code={QuickstartCompositeComplete} />

## Run Quickstart

To run the code above use the command:

```bash

npm run start

```

![End state of composite quickstart](images/CompositeEnd.png)

## Troubleshooting

See the [troubleshooting page](./?path=/story/troubleshooting--page) for some common problems and recommended solutions.

## Clean Up Resources

If you want to clean up and remove a Communication Services subscription, you can delete the resource or resource group.
Deleting the resource group also deletes any other resources associated with it.
Learn more about [cleaning up resources](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/communication-services/quickstarts/create-communication-resource?tabs=windows&pivots=platform-azp#clean-up-resources).

## Next Steps

[Try UI Library UI Components](./?path=/story/quickstarts-uicomponents--page)

For more information, see the following resources:

- [UI Library Use Cases](./?path=/story/use-cases--page)
- [UI Library Styling](./?path=/story/styling--page)
- [UI Library Theming](./?path=/story/theming--page)
- [UI Library Localization](./?path=/story/localization--page#composites)

Commit message:

[Storybook update] Update setup stories to talk about our CRA template (#2709)
* update stories to talk about our CRA template

* Change files

* Duplicate change files for beta release

* fix bad sentence

* fix sentence

packages/storybook/stories/QuickStarts/QuickstartComposite.stories.mdx, after:

import { Stack } from '@fluentui/react';
import { Meta, Source } from '@storybook/addon-docs';
import QuickstartCompositeAdapter from '!!raw-loader!./snippets/QuickstartCompositeAdapter.snippet.tsx';
import QuickstartCompositeComplete from '!!raw-loader!./snippets/QuickstartCompositeComplete.snippet.tsx';

<Meta
  id="quickstarts-composites"
  title="Composites/Get Started"
  parameters={{ previewTabs: { canvas: { disable: true, hidden: true } } }}
/>

# Quickstart: Get started with Composites

Get started with Azure Communication Services by using the UI Library to quickly integrate communication experiences into your applications. In this quickstart, you'll learn how to integrate UI Library composites into your application to build communication experiences.

UI Library components come in two flavors: UI and Composite.

- **UI components** represent discrete communication capabilities; they're the basic building blocks that can be used to build complex communication experiences.
- **Composite components** are turn-key experiences for common communication scenarios that have been built using **base components** as building blocks and packaged to be easily integrated into applications.

## Download the code

You can find the completed code for this quickstart here: [Get started with Composites](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/communication-services-javascript-quickstarts/tree/main/ui-library-quickstart-composites)

## Prerequisites

- An Azure account with an active subscription. [Create an account for free](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/?WT.mc_id=A261C142F).
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) Active LTS and Maintenance LTS versions (Node 14.19.0 and above).
- An active Communication Services resource. [Create a Communication Services resource](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/communication-services/quickstarts/create-communication-resource?tabs=windows&pivots=platform-azp).
- An identity with both VoIP and Chat scopes. Generate an identity using the [Azure Portal](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/communication-services/quickstarts/identity/quick-create-identity).

## Generate Access Token

For setting up adapters that power the composites, we need to generate an access token to allow the adapters to interact with the Azure Communication Services back-end.

Access Tokens can be generated using this [Azure Portal quickstart](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/communication-services/quickstarts/identity/quick-create-identity) inside your Azure Communication Services dashboard as shown below.

<Stack style={{ width: '100%' }}>
  {/* Chrome is more lenient with playing muted video: https://developer.chrome.com/blog/autoplay */}
  <video style={{ width: '100%' }} src="videos/generate-access-token.mp4" autoPlay loop muted />
</Stack>

<br />

## Setting Up

UI Library requires a React environment to be setup. Follow the [setup page](./?path=/docs/setup-communication-react--page) to get started
with your new app.

If you are on react 18 or higher and experiencing issues with starting your app,
visit our [setup page](./?path=/docs/setup-communication-react--page) to troubleshoot the issue.

If you are creating a new application run the following command to make a new app setup with the core dependencies needed for the UI library.
You will still need to install the `uuid` package like below.

```bash

npx create-react-app your-ui-lib-application --template communication-react

cd your-ui-lib-application

```

### Install the Package

Use the `npm install` command to install the Azure Communication Services UI Library for JavaScript.

```bash

npm install @azure/communication-react

```

`@azure/communication-react` specifies core Azure Communication Services as `peerDependencies` so that
you can most consistently use the API from the core libraries in your application. You need to install those libraries as well:

```bash

npm install @azure/communication-calling@1.4.4
npm install @azure/communication-chat@1.2.0

```

Also install the `uuid` package to generate a random group ID for the 'Set Up Adapters' section below.

```bash

npm install uuid

```

### Run Create React App

Let's test the Create React App installation by running:

```bash

npm run start

```

## Object Model

The following classes and interfaces handle some of the major features of the Azure Communication Services UI client library:

| Name                                                                        | Description                                                                                  |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [CallComposite](./?path=/story/composites-call-basicexample--basic-example) | Composite component that renders a calling experience with participant gallery and controls. |
| [ChatComposite](./?path=/story/composites-chat-basicexample--basic-example) | Composite component that renders a chat experience with chat thread and input                |

## Set Up Adapters

Before we initialize the actual composite components, we need to set up the adapters that will power them.
These adapters take care of the entire state of the composites truly making them a turn-key solution.
To setup the adapters, developers needs to pass information on the call or chat they want to join.

The adapters require access tokens, group IDs, or thread IDs to be setup.
For this quickstart, the access tokens required need to have both `chat` and `VoIP` scopes.
For more information on access tokens see: [Identity Model](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/communication-services/concepts/identity-model#access-tokens)
These elements come from services that go through the proper steps to generate these IDs and pass them to the client application.
For more information, see: [Client Server Architecture](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/communication-services/concepts/client-and-server-architecture).
For Example: The Group Chat composite expects that the `userId` associated to the `token` being used to initialize it has already been joined to the `threadId` being provided.
If the token hasn't been joined to the thread ID, then the Group Chat composite will fail.
For more information on chat, see: [Getting Started with Chat](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/communication-services/quickstarts/chat/get-started?pivots=programming-language-csharp)

Go to the `src` folder inside of `ui-library-quickstart-composites` and look for the file `App.tsx`.

`App.tsx`

<Source code={QuickstartCompositeAdapter} />

Next we will initialize the composite components with the adapters.

## Initialize Composites

Go to the `src` folder inside of `ui-library-quickstart-composites` and look for the file `app.tsx`.
Here we'll drop the following code to initialize our Composite Components for Chat and Calling using the adapters we set up above.
You can choose which one to use depending on the type of communication experience you're building.
If needed, you can use both at the same time.

`App.tsx`

<Source code={QuickstartCompositeComplete} />

## Run Quickstart

To run the code above use the command:

```bash

npm run start

```

![End state of composite quickstart](images/CompositeEnd.png)

## Troubleshooting

See the [troubleshooting page](./?path=/story/troubleshooting--page) for some common problems and recommended solutions.

## Clean Up Resources

If you want to clean up and remove a Communication Services subscription, you can delete the resource or resource group.
Deleting the resource group also deletes any other resources associated with it.
Learn more about [cleaning up resources](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/communication-services/quickstarts/create-communication-resource?tabs=windows&pivots=platform-azp#clean-up-resources).

## Next Steps

[Try UI Library UI Components](./?path=/story/quickstarts-uicomponents--page)

For more information, see the following resources:

- [UI Library Use Cases](./?path=/story/use-cases--page)
- [UI Library Styling](./?path=/story/styling--page)
- [UI Library Theming](./?path=/story/theming--page)
- [UI Library Localization](./?path=/story/localization--page#composites)
