# Contribution Guide

1. **[Getting Set up](<./1. getting-set-up.md>)**
2. [Building Samples and Packages](<./2. build-samples-and-packages.md>)
3. [Running a Sample or Storybook](<./3. running-a-sample-or-storybook.md>)
4. [Testing your changes](<./4. testing-your-changes.md>)
5. [Writing unit tests](<./5. writing-unit-tests.md>)
6. [Submitting a PR](<./6. submitting-a-pr.md>)
7. [Having your changes published](<./7. having-your-changes-published.md>)

## 1. Getting Set up

### Prerequisites

- Install [Node.js (16.19.0 and above)](https://nodejs.org/en/download/).
- (Recommended) Install [Visual Studio Code (Stable Build)](https://code.visualstudio.com/Download).
- Install [Rush](https://rushjs.io/), in a terminal of your choosing, run:

    ```bash
    npm i -g @microsoft/rush
    ```

### Cloning the repo

Clone the repo: [https://github.com/Azure/communication-ui-library](https://github.com/Azure/communication-ui-library)

```bash
# HTTPS
git clone https://github.com/Azure/communication-ui-library.git

# SSH
git clone git@github.com:Azure/communication-ui-library.git
```

### Installing dependencies

Navigate to your cloned repo and install dependencies for all packages and samples. This may take a long time the first time it runs.

```bash
# navigate to the repository
cd communication-ui-library/

# install dependencies
rush update:beta
```

This repository uses two build flavors: `beta` and `stable`. These correspond to the `beta` and `stable` npm packages we release. To switch between the two, you can run `rush switch-flavor:stable` or `rush switch-flavor:beta`. These `switch-flavor` commands will perform the appropriate `rush update:stable` or `rush update:beta`.

`rush update` command is also available as this is a default rush command we cannot remove. We recommend using `rush update:beta` or `rush update:stable` instead to be explicit about the flavor you are updating.

> NOTE: When intaking new changes from main, you will often need to reupdate the installed packages. This should be done by running `rush update:beta` or `rush update:stable` depending on the flavor you are using.

# FAQ
If you are running into issues such as "Filename too long" when setting up the repo.
e.g

`error: cannot stat 'packages/react-composites/tests/browser/snapshots/stable/tests/browser/callwithchat/CallWithChatComposite.test.ts-snapshots/call-with-chat-more-drawer-new-selected-microphone-screen-Mobile-Android-Portrait-linux.png': Filename too long`

We suggest running this command

`git config --system core.longpaths true`

or without --system
`git config core.longpaths true`

---

- Next: [Building Samples and Packages](<./2. build-samples-and-packages.md>)
