docs/contributing-guide/3. running-a-sample-or-storybook.md, before:

# Contribution Guide

1. [Getting Set up](<./1. getting-set-up.md>)
2. [Building Samples and Packages](<./2. build-samples-and-packages.md>)
3. **[Running a Sample or Storybook](<./3. running-a-sample-or-storybook.md>)**
4. [Testing your changes](<./4. testing-your-changes.md>)
5. [Writing unit tests](<./5. writing-unit-tests.md>)
6. [Submitting a PR](<./6. submitting-a-pr.md>)
7. [Having your changes published](<./7. having-your-changes-published.md>)

## 3. Running a Sample or Storybook

### Running one of the sample apps

To run one of the samples first input your Azure resource connection string.

* Under `samples\Server\appsettings.json` replace `"REPLACE_WITH_CONNECTION_STRING"` with your connection string.

Then navigate to the sample directory and type the run command:

```bash
# Navigate to one of the sample directories, e.g. `Calling`
cd samples\Calling

# Start the sample
rushx start
```

Running a sample kicks off a number of commands:

1. Starts the Sample's webpack-dev-server
    * This hosts the app by default at `localhost:3000`
1. Starts the Sample's API server
    * This server is located `Samples/server`
    * This runs by default at `localhost:8080`
1. Starts a dependency `build:watch` command to hot reload any changes made to packages.

Once the webpack-dev-server has started it should open the webpage for the sample, and once the sample has finished building the webpage will finish loading and the sample will be ready.
> note: this may take a long time the first time it runs

### Running Storybook

If you are making changes to the pure UI components, you will want to verify your changes in Storybook. You may also have to update the corresponding story for that UI component inside Storybook.

To run Storybook navigate to the storybook directory and run the storybook start command (this will be build Storybook's dependencies and start the Storybook):

```bash
# Navigate to the storybook directory
cd packages\storybook

# Start Storybook
rushx start
```

When `rushx start` completes you should be able to view the storybook at: http://localhost:6006/

---

* Next: [Testing your changes](<./4. testing-your-changes.md>)
* Previous: [Building Samples and Packages](<./2. build-samples-and-packages.md>)

Commit message:

[Chat] fixing the contribution guide (#3065)

docs/contributing-guide/3. running-a-sample-or-storybook.md, after:

# Contribution Guide

1. [Getting Set up](<./1. getting-set-up.md>)
2. [Building Samples and Packages](<./2. build-samples-and-packages.md>)
3. **[Running a Sample or Storybook](<./3. running-a-sample-or-storybook.md>)**
4. [Testing your changes](<./4. testing-your-changes.md>)
5. [Writing unit tests](<./5. writing-unit-tests.md>)
6. [Submitting a PR](<./6. submitting-a-pr.md>)
7. [Having your changes published](<./7. having-your-changes-published.md>)

## 3. Running a Sample or Storybook
### Running the Calling Sample
To run the Calling sample first input your Azure resource connection string.

* Under `samples\Server\appsettings.json` replace `"REPLACE_WITH_CONNECTION_STRING"` with your connection string.

Then navigate to the sample directory and type the run command:

```bash
# Navigate to the sample directories `Calling`
cd samples\Calling

# Start the sample
rushx start
```
### Running the Chat Sample
To run the Chat sample under `samples\Server\appsettings.json` replace:

* `"REPLACE_WITH_CONNECTION_STRING"` with your connection string.
* `"REPLACE_WITH_ENDPOINT_URL"` with your endpoint.
* `"REPLACE_WITH_ADMIN_USER_ID"` with your users identity.

Then navigate to the sample directory and type the run command:

```bash
# Navigate to the sample directories `Chat`
cd samples\Chat

# Start the sample
rushx start
```
Running a sample kicks off a number of commands:

1. Starts the Sample's webpack-dev-server
    * This hosts the app by default at `localhost:3000`
1. Starts the Sample's API server
    * This server is located `Samples/server`
    * This runs by default at `localhost:8080`
1. Starts a dependency `build:watch` command to hot reload any changes made to packages.

Once the webpack-dev-server has started it should open the webpage for the sample, and once the sample has finished building the webpage will finish loading and the sample will be ready.
> note: this may take a long time the first time it runs

### Running Storybook

If you are making changes to the pure UI components, you will want to verify your changes in Storybook. You may also have to update the corresponding story for that UI component inside Storybook.

To run Storybook navigate to the storybook directory and run the storybook start command (this will be build Storybook's dependencies and start the Storybook):

```bash
# Navigate to the storybook directory
cd packages\storybook

# Start Storybook
rushx start
```

When `rushx start` completes you should be able to view the storybook at: http://localhost:6006/

---

* Next: [Testing your changes](<./4. testing-your-changes.md>)
* Previous: [Building Samples and Packages](<./2. build-samples-and-packages.md>)
